#Exercises

Archive of the app so far:

- <https://github.com/wit-design-patterns-2016/pacemaker-android/releases/tag/V7>


This lab has introduce the Mediator pattern in an attempt to introduce a generic 'sync' feature. There are a range of features in the Android SDK which could be exploited by the Mediator implementation - or which could replace the mediator completely, implementing a more robust sync facility. These are concepts that can usefully implemented in your assignment. Among these are:

##[Services](http://developer.android.com/guide/components/services.html)

>A Service is an application component that can perform long-running operations in the background and does not provide a user interface. Another application component can start a service and it will continue to run in the background even if the user switches to another application

 Currently, for every command a new thread is being created vie the `AsyncTask` execute method:

~~~java
    new GetActivities(context, user, response, dialogMesssage).execute();
~~~

(Note the '.execute' above). Unless we specifically initiate a command like this from the android client, we will not revieve any updates. We could initiate a service on application launch, which would periodically reach out to the service and download any updates. In this way, if a user updated activities using the web app, then should appear on the android client in due course.

##[BroadcastRecievers](http://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/BroadcastReceiver.html)

If you implement the services above, then your activities will need to be updated periodically if a change is noticed. BroadcastRecievers are one way of achieving this. It may even be possible for multiple applications to 'register' for activity updates using this mechanism


##[SyncAdapter](http://developer.android.com/training/sync-adapters/creating-sync-adapter.html)

>The sync adapter component in your app encapsulates the code for the tasks that transfer data between the device and a server. Based on the scheduling and triggers you provide in your app, the sync adapter framework runs the code in the sync adapter component.

Supplementing the above, the SyncAdapter framework introduces a more comprehensive solution to sync issues:
